docs/assemblies/con_provisioning-bare-metal-data-plane-nodes.adoc, before:

[id="con_provisioning-bare-metal-data-plane-nodes_{context}"]
= Provisioning bare metal data plane nodes

[role="_abstract"]
Provisioning bare metal nodes on the data plane is supported with the Red Hat OpenShift
Container Platform (RHOCP) Cluster Baremetal Operator (CBO). The CBO is a RHOCP Operator
responsible for deploying all the components that are required to provision bare metal
nodes within the RHOCP cluster, including the Bare Metal Operator (BMO) and Ironic
containers.

== Installer-Provisioned Infrastructure

CBO is enabled by default on RHOCP clusters that are installed with the baremetal
installer-provisioned infrastructure. You can configure installer-provisioned clusters
with a provisioning network to enable both virtual media and network boot installations.
You can alternatively configure an installer-provisioned cluster without a provisioning
network so that only virtual media provisioning is possible.

== Assisted Installer Provisioned Infrastructure

You can enable CBO on clusters installed with the Assisted Installer, and you can manually
add the provisioning network to the Assisted Installer cluster after installation.

== User Provisioned Infrastructure

You can activate CBO on RHOCP clusters installed with user-provisioned infrastructure by
creating a Provisioning CR. You cannot add a provisioning network to a user-provisioned
cluster.

For user-provisioned insfrastructure a provisioning CR has to be created manually as below:

 apiVersion: metal3.io/v1alpha1
 kind: Provisioning
 metadata:
   name: provisioning-configuration
 spec:
   provisioningNetwork: "Disabled"
   watchAllNamespaces: false

BMO manages the available hosts on clusters and performs the following operations:

* Inspects node hardware details and reports them to the corresponding BareMetalHost CR.
This includes information about CPUs, RAM, disks and NICs.
* Provisions nodes with a specific image.
* Cleans node disk contents before and after provisioning.

== Provisioning Nodes with OpenStackDataPlaneNodeSet

Before deploying dataplane nodes on baremetal, ensure that CBO has been enabled/activated
with clusters installed with the different installers mentioned above.

Sufficient number of edpm node BareMetalHost(BMH) CRs should be created and be in
`Available` state (after inspection).By default baremetal-operator would be looking
for BMHs in the `openshift-machine-api` namespace.

`Provisioning` resource should be patched to watch all namespaces with `watchAllNamespaces: true`
as the secrets would be created in `openstack` namespace, in spite of BMHs in `openshift-machine-api`
namespace.

[,console]
----
$ oc patch provisioning provisioning-configuration --type merge -p '{"spec":{"watchAllNamespaces": true }}'
----

Sample BMH spec:

 apiVersion: metal3.io/v1alpha1
 kind: BareMetalHost
 metadata:
   name: edpm-compute-01
   namespace: openstack
   labels:
     app: openstack
     workload: compute
 spec:
   bmc:
     address: redfish+http://192.168.111.1:8000/redfish/v1/Systems/e8efd888-f844-4fe0-9e2e-498f4ab7806d
     credentialsName: node-bmc-secret
   bootMACAddress: 00:c7:e4:a7:e7:f3
   bootMode: UEFI
   online: false

BMH `labels` should be set appropriately for the desired nodes so that it can be used
by the `bmhLabelSelector` in the `OpenStackDataPlaneNodeSet` spec.

For virtual-media provisioning BMC address should use virtual-media as below.

 bmc:
   address: redfish-virtualmedia+http://192.168.111.1:8000/redfish/v1/Systems/e8efd888-f844-4fe0-9e2e-498f4ab7806d

To provision the baremetal nodes for edpm, OpenStackDataPlaneNodeSet spec should have the
`baremetalSetTemplate` section as show below. Other than `bmhLabelSelector`, `hardwareReqs`
field can also be provided for appropriate BMH selection.

 apiVersion: dataplane.openstack.org/v1beta1
 kind: OpenStackDataPlaneNodeSet
 metadata:
   name: openstack-edpm
 spec:
   baremetalSetTemplate:
     bmhLabelSelector:
       app: openstack
       workload: compute
     ctlplaneInterface: enp1s0
     cloudUserName: cloud-admin

=== Relevant Status Condition

`NodeSetBaremetalProvisionReady` condition in status condtions reflects the status of
baremetal provisioning as shown below.

[,console]
----
$ oc get openstackdataplanenodeset openstack-edpm-ipam -o json | jq '.status.conditions[] | select(.type=="NodeSetBaremetalProvisionReady")'
{
  "lastTransitionTime": "2024-02-01T04:41:58Z",
  "message": "NodeSetBaremetalProvisionReady ready",
  "reason": "Ready",
  "status": "True",
  "type": "NodeSetBaremetalProvisionReady"
}
----

Commit message:

Allow using node specific BmhLabelSelector
Now one can use node specific bmhLabelSelectors to
select particular baremetal nodes during provisoning.

jira: OSPRH-10282

Signed-off-by: rabi <ramishra@redhat.com>

docs/assemblies/con_provisioning-bare-metal-data-plane-nodes.adoc, after:

[id="con_provisioning-bare-metal-data-plane-nodes_{context}"]
= Provisioning bare metal data plane nodes

[role="_abstract"]
Provisioning bare metal nodes on the data plane is supported with the Red Hat OpenShift
Container Platform (RHOCP) Cluster Baremetal Operator (CBO). The CBO is a RHOCP Operator
responsible for deploying all the components that are required to provision bare metal
nodes within the RHOCP cluster, including the Bare Metal Operator (BMO) and Ironic
containers.

== Installer-Provisioned Infrastructure

CBO is enabled by default on RHOCP clusters that are installed with the baremetal
installer-provisioned infrastructure. You can configure installer-provisioned clusters
with a provisioning network to enable both virtual media and network boot installations.
You can alternatively configure an installer-provisioned cluster without a provisioning
network so that only virtual media provisioning is possible.

== Assisted Installer Provisioned Infrastructure

You can enable CBO on clusters installed with the Assisted Installer, and you can manually
add the provisioning network to the Assisted Installer cluster after installation.

== User Provisioned Infrastructure

You can activate CBO on RHOCP clusters installed with user-provisioned infrastructure by
creating a Provisioning CR. You cannot add a provisioning network to a user-provisioned
cluster.

For user-provisioned insfrastructure a provisioning CR has to be created manually as below:

 apiVersion: metal3.io/v1alpha1
 kind: Provisioning
 metadata:
   name: provisioning-configuration
 spec:
   provisioningNetwork: "Disabled"
   watchAllNamespaces: false

BMO manages the available hosts on clusters and performs the following operations:

* Inspects node hardware details and reports them to the corresponding BareMetalHost CR.
This includes information about CPUs, RAM, disks and NICs.
* Provisions nodes with a specific image.
* Cleans node disk contents before and after provisioning.

== Provisioning Nodes with OpenStackDataPlaneNodeSet

Before deploying dataplane nodes on baremetal, ensure that CBO has been enabled/activated
with clusters installed with the different installers mentioned above.

Sufficient number of edpm node BareMetalHost(BMH) CRs should be created and be in
`Available` state (after inspection).By default baremetal-operator would be looking
for BMHs in the `openshift-machine-api` namespace.

`Provisioning` resource should be patched to watch all namespaces with `watchAllNamespaces: true`
as the secrets would be created in `openstack` namespace, in spite of BMHs in `openshift-machine-api`
namespace.

[,console]
----
$ oc patch provisioning provisioning-configuration --type merge -p '{"spec":{"watchAllNamespaces": true }}'
----

Sample BMH spec:

 apiVersion: metal3.io/v1alpha1
 kind: BareMetalHost
 metadata:
   name: edpm-compute-01
   namespace: openstack
   labels:
     app: openstack
     workload: compute
 spec:
   bmc:
     address: redfish+http://192.168.111.1:8000/redfish/v1/Systems/e8efd888-f844-4fe0-9e2e-498f4ab7806d
     credentialsName: node-bmc-secret
   bootMACAddress: 00:c7:e4:a7:e7:f3
   bootMode: UEFI
   online: false

BMH `labels` should be set appropriately for the desired nodes so that it can be used
by the `bmhLabelSelector` in the `OpenStackDataPlaneNodeSet` spec.

For virtual-media provisioning BMC address should use virtual-media as below.

 bmc:
   address: redfish-virtualmedia+http://192.168.111.1:8000/redfish/v1/Systems/e8efd888-f844-4fe0-9e2e-498f4ab7806d

To provision the baremetal nodes for edpm, OpenStackDataPlaneNodeSet spec should have the
`baremetalSetTemplate` section as show below. Other than `bmhLabelSelector`, `hardwareReqs`
field can also be provided for appropriate BMH selection. To select a particular BMH for a
node, `bmhLabelSelector` can be provided in the node section of the `OpenStackDataPlaneNodeSet`
spec. These labels would be used in addition to the labels set in `baremetalSetTemplate` to
select BMHs for the node.

 apiVersion: dataplane.openstack.org/v1beta1
 kind: OpenStackDataPlaneNodeSet
 metadata:
   name: openstack-edpm
 spec:
   baremetalSetTemplate:
     bmhLabelSelector:
       app: openstack
       workload: compute
     ctlplaneInterface: enp1s0
     cloudUserName: cloud-admin
   nodes:
     edpm-compute-0
       hostName: edpm-compute-0
       ansible:
         ansibleHost: 192.168.122.100
       bmhLabelSelector:
         nodeName: edpm-compute-01

=== Relevant Status Condition

`NodeSetBaremetalProvisionReady` condition in status condtions reflects the status of
baremetal provisioning as shown below.

[,console]
----
$ oc get openstackdataplanenodeset openstack-edpm-ipam -o json | jq '.status.conditions[] | select(.type=="NodeSetBaremetalProvisionReady")'
{
  "lastTransitionTime": "2024-02-01T04:41:58Z",
  "message": "NodeSetBaremetalProvisionReady ready",
  "reason": "Ready",
  "status": "True",
  "type": "NodeSetBaremetalProvisionReady"
}
----
