docs/assemblies/scaling.adoc, before:

= Scaling DataPlane

== Scaling Out

Scale out of an existing dataplane with more edpm nodes can be achieved by adding new
nodes to the `nodes` section of the `OpenStackDataPlaneNodeSet` spec. Ensure that
there are enough BMHs in `Available` state in the required namespace with the desired
labels for baremetal nodes.

.Pre-Provisioned:

 apiVersion: dataplane.openstack.org/v1beta1
 kind: OpenStackDataPlaneNodeSet
 metadata:
   name: openstack-edpm-ipam
 spec:
   preProvisioned: True
   nodes:
   ...
     edpm-compute-2:
       hostName: edpm-compute-2
       ansible:
         ansibleHost: 192.168.122.102
       networks:
       - name: CtlPlane
         subnetName: subnet1
         defaultRoute: true
         fixedIP: 192.168.122.102
       - name: InternalApi
         subnetName: subnet1
       - name: Storage
         subnetName: subnet1
       - name: Tenant
         subnetName: subnet1
   ...

.Baremetal:

 apiVersion: dataplane.openstack.org/v1beta1
 kind: OpenStackDataPlaneNodeSet
 metadata:
   name: openstack-edpm-ipam
 spec:
   nodes:
   ...
     edpm-compute-2:
       hostName: edpm-compute-2
   ...

WARNING: To deploy on the additional nodes, a *new* `OpenStackDataPlaneDeployment` CR should be
created with the `OpenStackDataPlaneNodeSet` in the `nodeSets` section.

.New OpenStackDataPlaneDeployment:

 apiVersion: dataplane.openstack.org/v1beta1
 kind: OpenStackDataPlaneDeployment
 metadata:
   name: new-deployment # Do not re-use the name from previous OpenStackDataPlaneDeployment
 spec:
  nodeSets:
    - openstack-edpm-ipam # scaled out nodeset name


Once deployment completes `OpenStackDataPlaneNodeSet` would be ready as shown below.

[,console]
----
$ oc get openstackdataplanenodeset openstack-edpm-ipam
NAME                  STATUS   MESSAGE
openstack-edpm-ipam   True     NodeSet Ready
----

If the scaled out nodes are compute nodes, once the `OpenStackDataPlaneNodeSet` reaches
`NodeSet Ready`, `nova-manage cell_v2 discover_hosts` should be run to make the new
compute nodes show-up in hypervisor list and become usable.

[,console]
----
$ oc rsh nova-cell0-conductor-0 nova-manage cell_v2 discover_hosts --verbose
Found 2 cell mappings.
Skipping cell0 since it does not contain hosts.
Getting computes from cell 'cell1': 75f666d2-922d-45af-8bdb-d897a1bc9b1c
Checking host mapping for compute host 'edpm-compute-2': 6afda7af-2953-4400-842c-a327a0e43a74
Creating host mapping for compute host 'edpm-compute-2': 6afda7af-2953-4400-842c-a327a0e43a74
Found 1 unmapped computes in cell: 75f666d2-922d-45af-8bdb-d897a1bc9b1c

$ oc rsh openstackclient openstack hypervisor list
+--------------------------------------+-------------------------------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+
| ID                                   | Hypervisor Hostname                 | Hypervisor Type | Host IP         | State |
+--------------------------------------+-------------------------------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+
| cc05372a-27bd-4b33-985e-b0009c9e515e | edpm-compute-1.ctlplane.example.com | QEMU            | 192.168.221.101 | up    |
| 5e3f7b5d-39fd-430c-80d1-084086bdccde | edpm-compute-0.ctlplane.example.com | QEMU            | 192.168.221.100 | up    |
| 6afda7af-2953-4400-842c-a327a0e43a74 | edpm-compute-2.ctlplane.example.com | QEMU            | 192.168.221.102 | up    |
+--------------------------------------+-------------------------------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+
----

== Scaling Out with different configuration

If the deployment needs to be scaled out to nodes that require different
configuration (e.g. different kernel args, network config, or openstack config)
compared to the configuration in the current `OpenStackDataPlaneNodeSet`
then the new nodes cannot be added to the existing `OpenStackDataPlaneNodeSet`
but a new `OpenStackDataPlaneNodeSet` needs to be created that contains the
new nodes and the new configuration for those nodes. Then a new
`OpenStackDataPlaneDeployment` needs to be created that points to *both the
existing and the new `OpenStackDataPlaneNodeSets`* to trigger the scale out.

WARNING: The existing `OpenStackDataPlaneNodeSet` has the `ssh-known-hosts`
service. That service is global for the whole deployment so it should not be
listed on the new `OpenStackDataPlaneNodeSet`.

WARNING: If only the new `OpenStackDataPlaneNodeSet` is included into the new
`OpenStackDataPlaneDeployment` then the scale out seems to succeed but will
be incomplete causing that VM move operations will fail between nodes
in the different `OpenStackDataPlaneNodeSets`.

== Scaling In

The procedure for removing edpm nodes from dataplane involves some manual cleanup steps
after evacuation of workload.

For edpm compute nodes removal following steps should be performed.

=== Disable nova-compute service

[,console]
----

$ oc rsh openstackclient openstack compute service list
+--------------------------------------+----------------+------------------------+----------+---------+-------+----------------------------+
| ID                                   | Binary         | Host                   | Zone     | Status  | State | Updated At                 |
+--------------------------------------+----------------+------------------------+----------+---------+-------+----------------------------+
| 11105d9b-9ef7-4d6f-8d17-6eb8db175d76 | nova-conductor | nova-cell1-conductor-0 | internal | enabled | up    | 2024-02-01T03:59:42.000000 |
| 31e2ee14-a124-4e02-b11d-87c2cdca3c56 | nova-compute   | edpm-compute-1         | nova     | enabled | up    | 2024-02-01T03:59:38.000000 |
| bd031e6e-89d8-4839-b345-5f124ec4c07e | nova-compute   | edpm-compute-0         | nova     | enabled | up    | 2024-02-01T03:59:37.000000 |
| f70912f9-eaaa-4caa-906f-a38e20667af4 | nova-compute   | edpm-compute-2         | nova     | enabled | up    | 2024-02-01T03:59:38.000000 |
| 8a4622c3-0fb8-498a-81d8-a9c23c0be5fc | nova-conductor | nova-cell0-conductor-0 | internal | enabled | up    | 2024-02-01T03:59:37.000000 |
| 5ad386ec-ac2d-4238-a671-d9402432d326 | nova-scheduler | nova-scheduler-0       | internal | enabled | up    | 2024-02-01T03:59:38.000000 |
+--------------------------------------+----------------+------------------------+----------+---------+-------+----------------------------+

$ oc rsh openstackclient openstack compute service set edpm-compute-2 nova-compute --disable
----

=== Stop ovn and nova-compute containers

ssh to the edpm node to be removed and stop the containers.

[,console]
----

$ ssh -i out/edpm/ansibleee-ssh-key-id_rsa cloud-admin@192.168.221.102

[cloud-admin@edpm-compute-2 ~]$ sudo systemctl stop edpm_ovn_controller

[cloud-admin@edpm-compute-2 ~]$ sudo systemctl stop edpm_ovn_metadata_agent

[cloud-admin@edpm-compute-2 ~]$ sudo systemctl stop edpm_nova_compute
----

=== Delete network agents

Delete the agents for the compute nodes to be removed.

[,console]
----

$ oc rsh openstackclient openstack network agent list

+--------------------------------------+------------------------------+----------------+-------------------+-------+-------+----------------+
| ID                                   | Agent Type                   | Host           | Availability Zone | Alive | State | Binary         |
+--------------------------------------+------------------------------+----------------+-------------------+-------+-------+----------------+
| d2b9e5d0-a406-41c2-9bc3-e74aaf113450 | OVN Controller Gateway agent | worker-0       |                   | :-)   | UP    | ovn-controller |
| 9529e28e-522e-48f6-82e2-c5caf1cf5a14 | OVN Controller Gateway agent | worker-1       |                   | :-)   | UP    | ovn-controller |
| 91bd4981-1e81-4fe8-b628-8581add36f13 | OVN Controller agent         | edpm-compute-1 |                   | :-)   | UP    | ovn-controller |
| bdc1dd13-586f-4553-90d6-14348f6be150 | OVN Controller agent         | edpm-compute-0 |                   | :-)   | UP    | ovn-controller |
| f7bb5520-27df-470b-9566-0aa7e5fef583 | OVN Controller agent         | edpm-compute-2 |                   | :-)   | UP    | ovn-controller |
+--------------------------------------+------------------------------+----------------+-------------------+-------+-------+----------------+

$ oc rsh openstackclient openstack network agent delete f7bb5520-27df-470b-9566-0aa7e5fef583
----

=== Delete nova-compute service

Delete `nova-compute` service for the removed node.

[,console]
----

$ oc rsh openstackclient openstack compute service delete f70912f9-eaaa-4caa-906f-a38e20667af4

$ oc rsh openstackclient openstack hypervisor list
+--------------------------------------+-------------------------------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+
| ID                                   | Hypervisor Hostname                 | Hypervisor Type | Host IP         | State |
+--------------------------------------+-------------------------------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+
| cc05372a-27bd-4b33-985e-b0009c9e515e | edpm-compute-1.ctlplane.example.com | QEMU            | 192.168.221.101 | up    |
| 5e3f7b5d-39fd-430c-80d1-084086bdccde | edpm-compute-0.ctlplane.example.com | QEMU            | 192.168.221.100 | up    |
+--------------------------------------+-------------------------------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+
----

=== Patch OpenStackDataPlaneNodeSet to remove node

Once the cleanup is complete, patch `OpenStackDataPlaneNodeSet` CR to remove the
nodes from the `nodes` section.

[,console]
----

$ oc patch openstackdataplanenodeset/openstack-edpm --type json --patch '[{ "op": "remove", "path": "/spec/nodes/edpm-compute-2" }]'
openstackdataplanenodeset.dataplane.openstack.org/openstack-edpm patched
----

For baremetal provisioned node this would start de-provisioning the removed node.

[,console]
----

$ oc get bmh
NAME         STATE            CONSUMER              ONLINE   ERROR   AGE
compute-01   provisioned      openstack-edpm        true             2d21h
compute-02   provisioned      openstack-edpm        true             2d21h
compute-03   deprovisioning                         false            43h
----

== Scaling In by removing a NodeSet

If the scale in would remove the last node from a `OpenStackDataPlaneNodeSet`
then the `OpenStackDataPlaneNodeSet` resource should deleted as well. If this
was the one that listed the `ssh-known-hosts` service then that service needs
to be added to exactly one of the remaining `OpenStackDataPlaneNodeSets`. To
remove the ssh host keys of the removed nodes from the remaining nodes a new
`OpenStackDataPlaneDeployment` needs to be created that points to all the
remaining `OpenStackDataPlaneNodeSets`.

Commit message:

Update docs for scaling in a full nodeset
Also, now you can have global services in more than one nodeset
without any issue.

Signed-off-by: rabi <ramishra@redhat.com>

docs/assemblies/scaling.adoc, after:

= Scaling DataPlane

== Scaling Out

Scale out of an existing dataplane with more edpm nodes can be achieved by adding new
nodes to the `nodes` section of the `OpenStackDataPlaneNodeSet` spec. Ensure that
there are enough BMHs in `Available` state in the required namespace with the desired
labels for baremetal nodes.

.Pre-Provisioned:

 apiVersion: dataplane.openstack.org/v1beta1
 kind: OpenStackDataPlaneNodeSet
 metadata:
   name: openstack-edpm-ipam
 spec:
   preProvisioned: True
   nodes:
   ...
     edpm-compute-2:
       hostName: edpm-compute-2
       ansible:
         ansibleHost: 192.168.122.102
       networks:
       - name: CtlPlane
         subnetName: subnet1
         defaultRoute: true
         fixedIP: 192.168.122.102
       - name: InternalApi
         subnetName: subnet1
       - name: Storage
         subnetName: subnet1
       - name: Tenant
         subnetName: subnet1
   ...

.Baremetal:

 apiVersion: dataplane.openstack.org/v1beta1
 kind: OpenStackDataPlaneNodeSet
 metadata:
   name: openstack-edpm-ipam
 spec:
   nodes:
   ...
     edpm-compute-2:
       hostName: edpm-compute-2
   ...

WARNING: To deploy on the additional nodes, a *new* `OpenStackDataPlaneDeployment` CR should be
created with the `OpenStackDataPlaneNodeSet` in the `nodeSets` section.

.New OpenStackDataPlaneDeployment:

 apiVersion: dataplane.openstack.org/v1beta1
 kind: OpenStackDataPlaneDeployment
 metadata:
   name: new-deployment # Do not re-use the name from previous OpenStackDataPlaneDeployment
 spec:
  nodeSets:
    - openstack-edpm-ipam # scaled out nodeset name


Once deployment completes `OpenStackDataPlaneNodeSet` would be ready as shown below.

[,console]
----
$ oc get openstackdataplanenodeset openstack-edpm-ipam
NAME                  STATUS   MESSAGE
openstack-edpm-ipam   True     NodeSet Ready
----

If the scaled out nodes are compute nodes, once the `OpenStackDataPlaneNodeSet` reaches
`NodeSet Ready`, `nova-manage cell_v2 discover_hosts` should be run to make the new
compute nodes show-up in hypervisor list and become usable.

[,console]
----
$ oc rsh nova-cell0-conductor-0 nova-manage cell_v2 discover_hosts --verbose
Found 2 cell mappings.
Skipping cell0 since it does not contain hosts.
Getting computes from cell 'cell1': 75f666d2-922d-45af-8bdb-d897a1bc9b1c
Checking host mapping for compute host 'edpm-compute-2': 6afda7af-2953-4400-842c-a327a0e43a74
Creating host mapping for compute host 'edpm-compute-2': 6afda7af-2953-4400-842c-a327a0e43a74
Found 1 unmapped computes in cell: 75f666d2-922d-45af-8bdb-d897a1bc9b1c

$ oc rsh openstackclient openstack hypervisor list
+--------------------------------------+-------------------------------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+
| ID                                   | Hypervisor Hostname                 | Hypervisor Type | Host IP         | State |
+--------------------------------------+-------------------------------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+
| cc05372a-27bd-4b33-985e-b0009c9e515e | edpm-compute-1.ctlplane.example.com | QEMU            | 192.168.221.101 | up    |
| 5e3f7b5d-39fd-430c-80d1-084086bdccde | edpm-compute-0.ctlplane.example.com | QEMU            | 192.168.221.100 | up    |
| 6afda7af-2953-4400-842c-a327a0e43a74 | edpm-compute-2.ctlplane.example.com | QEMU            | 192.168.221.102 | up    |
+--------------------------------------+-------------------------------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+
----

== Scaling Out with different configuration

If the deployment needs to be scaled out to nodes that require different
configuration (e.g. different kernel args, network config, or openstack config)
compared to the configuration in the current `OpenStackDataPlaneNodeSet`
then the new nodes cannot be added to the existing `OpenStackDataPlaneNodeSet`
but a new `OpenStackDataPlaneNodeSet` needs to be created that contains the
new nodes and the new configuration for those nodes. Then a new
`OpenStackDataPlaneDeployment` needs to be created that points to *both the
existing and the new `OpenStackDataPlaneNodeSets`* to trigger the scale out.

WARNING: If only the new `OpenStackDataPlaneNodeSet` is included into the new
`OpenStackDataPlaneDeployment` then the scale out seems to succeed but will
be incomplete causing that VM move operations will fail between nodes
in the different `OpenStackDataPlaneNodeSets`.

== Scaling In

The procedure for removing edpm nodes from dataplane involves some manual cleanup steps
after evacuation of workload.

For edpm compute nodes removal following steps should be performed.

=== Disable nova-compute service

[,console]
----

$ oc rsh openstackclient openstack compute service list
+--------------------------------------+----------------+------------------------+----------+---------+-------+----------------------------+
| ID                                   | Binary         | Host                   | Zone     | Status  | State | Updated At                 |
+--------------------------------------+----------------+------------------------+----------+---------+-------+----------------------------+
| 11105d9b-9ef7-4d6f-8d17-6eb8db175d76 | nova-conductor | nova-cell1-conductor-0 | internal | enabled | up    | 2024-02-01T03:59:42.000000 |
| 31e2ee14-a124-4e02-b11d-87c2cdca3c56 | nova-compute   | edpm-compute-1         | nova     | enabled | up    | 2024-02-01T03:59:38.000000 |
| bd031e6e-89d8-4839-b345-5f124ec4c07e | nova-compute   | edpm-compute-0         | nova     | enabled | up    | 2024-02-01T03:59:37.000000 |
| f70912f9-eaaa-4caa-906f-a38e20667af4 | nova-compute   | edpm-compute-2         | nova     | enabled | up    | 2024-02-01T03:59:38.000000 |
| 8a4622c3-0fb8-498a-81d8-a9c23c0be5fc | nova-conductor | nova-cell0-conductor-0 | internal | enabled | up    | 2024-02-01T03:59:37.000000 |
| 5ad386ec-ac2d-4238-a671-d9402432d326 | nova-scheduler | nova-scheduler-0       | internal | enabled | up    | 2024-02-01T03:59:38.000000 |
+--------------------------------------+----------------+------------------------+----------+---------+-------+----------------------------+

$ oc rsh openstackclient openstack compute service set edpm-compute-2 nova-compute --disable
----

=== Stop ovn and nova-compute containers

ssh to the edpm node to be removed and stop the containers.

[,console]
----

$ ssh -i out/edpm/ansibleee-ssh-key-id_rsa cloud-admin@192.168.221.102

[cloud-admin@edpm-compute-2 ~]$ sudo systemctl stop edpm_ovn_controller

[cloud-admin@edpm-compute-2 ~]$ sudo systemctl stop edpm_ovn_metadata_agent

[cloud-admin@edpm-compute-2 ~]$ sudo systemctl stop edpm_nova_compute
----

=== Delete network agents

Delete the agents for the compute nodes to be removed.

[,console]
----

$ oc rsh openstackclient openstack network agent list

+--------------------------------------+------------------------------+----------------+-------------------+-------+-------+----------------+
| ID                                   | Agent Type                   | Host           | Availability Zone | Alive | State | Binary         |
+--------------------------------------+------------------------------+----------------+-------------------+-------+-------+----------------+
| d2b9e5d0-a406-41c2-9bc3-e74aaf113450 | OVN Controller Gateway agent | worker-0       |                   | :-)   | UP    | ovn-controller |
| 9529e28e-522e-48f6-82e2-c5caf1cf5a14 | OVN Controller Gateway agent | worker-1       |                   | :-)   | UP    | ovn-controller |
| 91bd4981-1e81-4fe8-b628-8581add36f13 | OVN Controller agent         | edpm-compute-1 |                   | :-)   | UP    | ovn-controller |
| bdc1dd13-586f-4553-90d6-14348f6be150 | OVN Controller agent         | edpm-compute-0 |                   | :-)   | UP    | ovn-controller |
| f7bb5520-27df-470b-9566-0aa7e5fef583 | OVN Controller agent         | edpm-compute-2 |                   | :-)   | UP    | ovn-controller |
+--------------------------------------+------------------------------+----------------+-------------------+-------+-------+----------------+

$ oc rsh openstackclient openstack network agent delete f7bb5520-27df-470b-9566-0aa7e5fef583
----

=== Delete nova-compute service

Delete `nova-compute` service for the removed node.

[,console]
----

$ oc rsh openstackclient openstack compute service delete f70912f9-eaaa-4caa-906f-a38e20667af4

$ oc rsh openstackclient openstack hypervisor list
+--------------------------------------+-------------------------------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+
| ID                                   | Hypervisor Hostname                 | Hypervisor Type | Host IP         | State |
+--------------------------------------+-------------------------------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+
| cc05372a-27bd-4b33-985e-b0009c9e515e | edpm-compute-1.ctlplane.example.com | QEMU            | 192.168.221.101 | up    |
| 5e3f7b5d-39fd-430c-80d1-084086bdccde | edpm-compute-0.ctlplane.example.com | QEMU            | 192.168.221.100 | up    |
+--------------------------------------+-------------------------------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------+
----

=== Patch OpenStackDataPlaneNodeSet to remove node

Once the cleanup is complete, patch `OpenStackDataPlaneNodeSet` CR to remove the
nodes from the `nodes` section.

[,console]
----

$ oc patch openstackdataplanenodeset/openstack-edpm --type json --patch '[{ "op": "remove", "path": "/spec/nodes/edpm-compute-2" }]'
openstackdataplanenodeset.dataplane.openstack.org/openstack-edpm patched
----

For baremetal provisioned node this would start de-provisioning the removed node.

[,console]
----

$ oc get bmh
NAME         STATE            CONSUMER              ONLINE   ERROR   AGE
compute-01   provisioned      openstack-edpm        true             2d21h
compute-02   provisioned      openstack-edpm        true             2d21h
compute-03   deprovisioning                         false            43h
----

== Scaling In by removing a NodeSet

If a full `OpenStackDataPlaneNodeSet` has to be removed, steps mentioned
above to disable `nova-compute` services, stop the `ovn` and `nova-compute`
containers on nodes, delete network agents and delete `nova-compute` services
should be done for each compute. Finally the `OpenStackDataPlaneNodeSet` CR can
be deleted. If this `OpenStackDataPlaneNodeSet` is the only one listing the
`ssh-known-hosts` service, then this service needs to be added to one or more
of the remaining `OpenStackDataPlaneNodeSets`. To remove the ssh host keys of
the removed nodes of this `OpenStackDataPlaneNodeSet` from other nodes a new
`OpenStackDataPlaneDeployment` needs to be created that points to all the
remaining `OpenStackDataPlaneNodeSets`.
